 ##value in::She has an amazing memory, very good creativity and a
 
 ###TRANS IN:She has an amazing memory
 #Value IN:그녀는 놀라운 기억력 가졌고,
 
 ##value in::wasteful when working on projects. She has an active
 
 ###TRANS IN:very good creativity and a wasteful when working on projects
 #Value IN:아주 좋은 창의성 그리고 a wasteful when working on projects.
 
 ##value in::abilities and an iffy sense for music.
 
 ###TRANS IN:She has an active abilities and an iffy sense for music
 #Value IN:그녀는 an active abilities and an iffy sense for music 가졌고.
 
 ##value in::sum of patience, but she has poor analytical

 ###TRANS IN:sum of patience
 #No trans IN:sum of patience,

 ##value in::sense of humor. She can sometimes act without
 ###TRANS IN:but she has poor analytical sense of humor
 #No trans IN:but she has poor analytical sense of humor.
 ##value in::deliberation. She does not easily fall in love and
 ###TRANS IN:She can sometimes act without deliberation
 #No trans IN:She can sometimes act without deliberation.
 ##value in::She is not a private person and freely shares
 ##value in::details of her life. She tends to be a little
 ###TRANS IN:She does not easily fall in love and She is not a private person and freely shares details of her life
 #Value IN:She does not easily fall in love and She is not a private person 그리고 freely shares details of her life.
 ##value in::rarely develops positive sentiments. She lives a
 ###TRANS IN:She tends to be a little rarely develops positive sentiments
 #No trans IN:She tends to be a little rarely develops positive sentiments.
 ##value in::fast-paced life. She does not often feel lustful. She
 ###TRANS IN:She lives a fast-paced life
 #No trans IN:She lives a fast-paced life.
 ###TRANS IN:She does not often feel lustful
 #No trans IN:She does not often feel lustful.
 ##value in::is not particularly interested in what others think
 ##value in::of her.
 ###TRANS IN:She is not particularly interested in what others think of her
 #Value IN:그녀는 not particularly interested in what others think of her.
 ##value in::She needs alcohol to get through the working day. She
 ###TRANS IN:She needs alcohol to get through the working day
 #No trans IN:She needs alcohol to get through the working day.
 ##value in::likes working outdoors and grumbles only mildly at
 ##value in::inclement weather.
 ###TRANS IN:She likes working outdoors and grumbles only mildly at inclement weather
 #Value IN:She likes working outdoors 그리고 grumbles only mildly at inclement weather.
 
 
 
  She has an amazing memory, very good creativity and a sum of patience, 
  but she has poor analytical abilities and an iffy sense for music.
  She is not a private person and freely shares details of her life. 
  She tends to be a little wasteful when working on projects. 
  She has an active sense of humor. 
  She can sometimes act without deliberation. 
  She does not easily fall in love and rarely develops positive sentiments. 
  She lives a fast-paced life. 
  She does not often feel lustful. 
  She is not particularly interested in what others think of her.
  She needs alcohol to get through the working day. 
  She likes working outdoors and grumbles only mildly at inclement weather.

  She has an amazing memory, very good creativity and 
  a sum of patience, but she has poor analytical abilities
  and an iffy sense for music.
  
  She is not a private person and freely shares details of
  her life. She tends to be a little wasteful when working
  on projects. She has an active sense of humor. She can
  sometimes act without deliberation. She does not easily
  fall in love and rarely develops positive sentiments.
  She lives a fast-paced life. She does not often feel lustful.

  She is not particularly interested in what others think
  of her. She needs alcohol to get through the working day.
  She likes working outdoors and grumbles only mildly at
  inclement weather.

세계생성 액자글씨
justify: 3
In 13,the human Asthi Strokeletters became the law-giver of The Righteous Union.

시작 로딩 숫자
justify:64
1/

메인 안내문
justify: 96 -시작
justify: 1  -본문

x5 y17 j0 s0:Loading data needed to create new world

x1y1 j3:Creating 
x7y1 j0:Thur Som, "The Universe of Oracles"
x42y1 j3: (
x44y1 j3:1
x45y1 j0: rejected)
x1y3 j0:Recounting legends...
x1y5 j3:The Age of Myth
x11y5 j0:, year 1
x1y6 j3:Historical figures: 
x11y6 j0:661
x1y8 j3:An abridged chronicle (
x13y8 j0:466 events total):
x1y10 j0:In
x4y10 j0:1,
x7y10 j0:the
x11y10 j0:gila
x16y10 j0:monster
x24y10 j0:fiend
x30y10 j0:Nunlod
x37y10 j0:became
x44y10 j0:the
x48y10 j0:master
x55y10 j0:of
x58y10 j0:The
x62y10 j0:Brown
x68y10 j0:Seduction.




"Once the Still is constructed, click on it and add the task Brew Drink from Plant (or fruit).","Once the 양조장이 건설되면 클릭을 하여 새로운 식물(혹은 과일)로 술 빚기 작업을 할당할 수 있습니다."
"If you have no suitable Plants, you may try Planting or Gathering. ","사용 가능한 식물이 없다면, 재배 또는 채집을 시도할 수 있습니다."
"The task also requires a Barrel from the Carpenter's Workshop. ","또한 그 작업은 목공소에서 만들 수 있는 통을 필요로 합니다. "
"If you survive until the caravan comes you may also trade for Drinks or Plants there.","캐러밴이 올 때까지 살아남으면 그곳에서 음료수나 식물로 교환할 수도 있습니다."
"The number of Drink rations can be seen at the top of the screen.","술의 재고량은 화면의 최상단에서 확인할 수 있습니다."
"Absent alcohol and in warmer weather, you can designate a Water Source from the Zones menu at a river or pond, so that your residents have water to drink.","술을 마시지 않고 날씨가 따뜻할 때는 구역 메뉴에서 강이나 연못에 수원지를 지정하여 주민들이 마실 수 있는 물을 제공할 수 있습니다."
"You'll want one of these anyway for other purposes, like cleaning and certain Workshop tasks.","청소나 특정 워크샵 작업과 같은 다른 용도로도 이 중 하나가 필요할 것입니다."
"You may find water underground.","어쩌면 당신은 지하에서 물을 발견하게 될지도 모릅니다."
"There's some food on the embark Wagon, and you can trade for food, but you can also grow your own. ","정착 마차엔 음식이 약간 있고, 당신은 무역을 통해 음식을 구할 수도 있지만, 자급자족할 수도 있습니다. "
"The Wagon comes with some Seeds, but as you might expect, these crops must be grown underground!","마차는 약간의 씨앗을 가지고 옵니다. 하지만 당신의 예측대로, 이 작물들은 지하에서만 자라납니다!"
"Using Mining orders, you'll need to carve out a rectangular area underground for your Farmplot. "," 채굴 명령을 사용하여, 지하에 Farmplot을 위한 직사각형 영역을 만들어야 합니다. "
"The underground rectangle must be near the surface, where there is soil (loam, clay, or sand.) One level down should suffice, before you hit rock. ","지하 사각형은 흙(토양, 점토 또는 모래)이 있는 표면 근처에 있어야 합니다. 바위에 닿기 전에 한 단계만 내려가면 충분합니다. "
"The highest mountain elevations do not have soil. ","가장 높은 산에는 흙이 없습니다. "







"The World","세계"
"The world created at the beginning of the game is active, and others may take an interest in your outpost as it grows. ","게임 초반에 만들어진 세계는 활성화되어 있으며, 다른 사람들은 당신의 전초기지가 성장함에 따라 관심을 가질 수 있습니다. "
"Stolen Artifacts and kidnapped citizens can be recovered by preparing missions from this screen. ","이 화면에서 임무를 준비하면 도난당한 유물과 납치된 시민을 되찾을 수 있습니다. "
"You can also cause trouble if you'd like to raid your neighbors. ","이웃을 습격하려는 경우 문제를 일으킬 수도 있습니다. "
"Raids are created by clicking on any site not belonging to your civilization.","당신의 문명에 속하지 않은 시설을 클릭하면 습격이 발생한다."
"Work orders are used to automate Tasks in Workshops. ","작업 명령은 워크숍에서 작업을 자동화하는 데 사용됩니다. "
"These work orders are set to complete a certain number of Tasks and can be given start conditions.","이러한 작업 주문은 특정 개수의 작업을 완료하도록 설정되며 시작 조건을 지정할 수 있습니다."
"For instance, you can create an order to Make Wooden Bins if you are out of empty ones, to Brew Drinks if you are running low, or to Make Five Statues every month.","예를 들어 빈 통이 없을 경우 나무통 만들기, 음료가 부족한 경우 음료 만들기, 또는 매 달마다 다섯 개의 조각상 만들기 작업을 생성할 수 있습니다."
"You can limit work orders to a number of Workshops. ","작업 주문을 여러 작업장으로 제한할 수 있습니다. "
"You can also create work orders at specific Workshops from their building sheet. ","건물 시트에서 특정 작업장에서 작업 주문을 생성할 수도 있습니다. "
"The system is reasonably powerful and you can eventually automate almost all of your production if you wish.","이 시스템은 상당히 강력하며, 원하는 경우 거의 모든 생산을 자동화할 수 있습니다."
"If you find that your stockpiles are filling up too fast, you can create room by building Bins, Barrels, and Bags.","비축량이 너무 빨리 채워진다면 상자, 통, 가방을 건설하여 공간을 만들면 됩니다. "
"Barrels are used to store Food. Bags are used to store Seeds (and some other things like Sand).","통은 식량 저장에 사용됩니다. 가방은 씨앗(및 모래 같은 다른 것들)을 저장하는 데 사용됩니다. "
"Bins hold just about everything else except Furniture, Wood and Boulders.","상자는 가구, 나무, 바위를 제외한 거의 모든 것을 담을 수 있습니다. "
"The Carpenter's Workshop is the best place to make lightweight Bins and Barrels, but they can also be made at the Stoneworker's Shop and the Metalsmith's Forge.","목공소는 가벼운 상자와 통을 만들 수 있지만, 석공의 상점과 대장장이의 대장간에서도 제작할 수 있습니다. "
"Bags are created at the Clothier's Shop or the Leatherworks.","가방은 재봉사의 상점 또는 가죽공방에서 제작할 수 있습니다."
"When the caravan arrives at the Trade Depot, you must click on the depot and select ""Bring Goods to Depot"".","캐러밴이 무역 보관소에 도착하면, 보관소를 클릭하고 ""보관소로 상품 가져오기""를 선택해야 합니다. "
"Here you can select which goods you wish to trade.","여기에서 거래할 상품을 선택할 수 있습니다." 
"After everyone has brought their goods you can select ""Trade"".","모든 사람이 상품을 가져온 후 ""거래""를 선택하면 됩니다."
"Don't worry if you have no Broker, just select ""Anyone can Trade"".","중개인이 없더라도 걱정하지 마시고, ""누구나 거래 가능""을 선택하면 됩니다. "
"You cannot trade until your Broker or another resident arrives at the depot.","당신의 중개인 또는 다른 상주자가 보관소에 도착할 때까지 거래할 수 없습니다."
"When trading you select which goods you want from the list on the left, and which goods of yours to trade from the list on the right.","거래할 때는 왼쪽 목록에서 원하는 상품을 선택하고, 오른쪽 목록에서 거래할 내 상품을 선택합니다. "
"Then hit ""Trade"".","그런 다음 ""거래""를 누르세요. "
"The trader will accept if the deal is fair and they can carry away the weight of the things you are selling.","거래 조건이 공정하고 판매하려는 상품의 무게를 감당할 수 있다면 상인이 거래를 수락합니다."
"Note that if you have a Broker the value of each good with be shown if their skill is high enough.","중개인이 있는 경우, 해당 중개인의 스킬이 충분히 높으면 각 재화의 가치가 표시됩니다."
"In order for some functions to be used, like work orders or bookkeeping, Administrators must be assigned. ","작업 지시서나 장부 작성과 같은 일부 기능을 사용하려면 관리자를 할당해야 합니다. "
"To do this select the Nobles and administrators menu and click the add button to assign somebody. ","이렇게 하려면 귀족 및 관리자 메뉴를 선택하고 추가 버튼을 클릭하여 누군가를 할당합니다. "
"Some Administrators will require Offices to perform their work. ","일부 관리자는 업무를 수행하기 위해 사무실을 필요로 합니다. "
"You can create these with Zones -> Office. ","구역 -> 사무실을 사용하여 만들 수 있습니다. "
"The Zone you select must contain a Chair, or you can paint a Zone and place a Chair later. ","선택한 구역에는 반드시 의자가 있어야 하며, 구역을 지정하고 나중에 의자를 배치할 수도 있습니다. "
"Remember to assign the Administrator to the Office.","관리자를 사무실에 할당하는 것을 잊지 마세요."
"Other nobles may appear or be assigned as the game progresses.","게임을 진행하면서 다른 귀족이 등장하거나 할당될 수 있습니다. "
"Use the Nobles and administrators menu to check their wants and needs.","귀족 및 관리자 메뉴를 사용해 원하는 것과 필요한 것을 확인합니다."
"In order to make Metal Bars for the Metalsmith, you must smelt Ore. ","금속 주괴를 대장장이를 위해 만들려면, 광석을 제련해야 합니다. "
"This can done at the Smelter which can be found under Workshops -> Furnaces -> Smelter. ","제련소는 작업장 -> 용광로 -> 제련소 항목에서 찾아볼 수 있습니다. "
"Ore is mined underground, below the soil layers.","광석은 토양층 아래 지하에서 채굴됩니다."
"If you have found magma you can build a Magma Smelter directly over it, otherwise you need Fuel. ","용암을 발견했다면 그 위에 바로 용암 용광로를 지을 수 있지만, 그렇지 않다면 연료가 필요합니다."
"To get Fuel you need to make Charcoal with a Wood Furnace, found at Workshops -> Furnaces -> Wood Furnace.","연료를 얻으려면 작업장 -> 용광로 -> 목재 용광로에서 찾을 수 있는 목재 용광로를 사용하여 숯을 만들어야 합니다. "
"You may switch to other forms of Fuel later, such as Coal, but you will usually need Charcoal from the Wood Furnace to start the process.","나중에 석탄과 같은 다른 형태의 연료로 전환할 수 있지만, 보통은 목재 용광로에서 숯이 있어야 공정을 시작할 수 있습니다. "
"It is a dangerous world, and if the entrances of your fortress are left open, ","이곳은 위험한 세상입니다. 만약 요새의 입구가 열려 있다면, "
"you can succumb to invasions. ","침략에 굴복할 수 있습니다. "
"The best way to avoid this fate is to build traps and ","이 운명을 피하는 가장 좋은 방법은 함정을 만들고 "
"lock the ways into your fortress.  The ways to build traps are as wild as your imagination. ","당신의 요새로 향하는 길을 잠그세요. 함정을 만드는 방법은 당신의 상상보다 훨씬 거칠 수 있습니다. "
"Most require Mechanisms made at the Mechanic's Shop, using Workshops -> Mechanic. ","대부분 작업장 -> 기계공의 기계공 공방에서 제작한 기계장치가 필요합니다. "
"To stop some enemies from entering your fortress use Build -> Machines/fluids -> Lever to build a Lever. ","적의 요새 진입을 막으려면 건설 -> 기계/유체 -> 레버를 사용하여 레버를 건설하세요. "
"Then click on the Lever and choose to link it to a Bridge or Door.  This will lock the Door ","그런 다음 레버를 클릭하고 다리 또는 문에 연결하도록 선택합니다. "
"or raise the Bridge, locking you inside. ","그러면 문이 잠기거나 다리가 상승하여 내부에 갇히게 됩니다. "
"There are also predesigned traps, such as Weapon, Cage, and Stone-Fall Traps. ","무기, 우리, 낙석 함정과 같이 미리 설계된 함정도 있습니다. "
"These require a Weapon, Cage, or Boulder to function. ","이 기능을 사용하려면 무기, 우리 또는 바위가 있어야 합니다. "
"Non-alcoholic water is essential to a functioning fortress.  The most favored place to ","알코올이 들어가지 않은 물은 제 기능을 하는 요새에 필수적입니다. "
"get it is from a Well. ","가장 선호되는 물 공급처는 우물입니다. "
"Wells require a Bucket, Blocks, a Rope or Chain, and Mechanisms.  They can be built over ","우물에는 양동이, 벽돌, 로프, 사슬, 기계장치가 필요합니다. "
"any body of water.  It is possible to find water underground, or divert it from the surface.","모든 수역 위에 건설할 수 있습니다. 지하에서 물을 찾거나 지표에서 물을 우회할 수 있습니다."
"Aquifers can block the downward progress of your fortress, but it is possible to bypass them. ","대수층이 요새의 아래쪽 진행을 차단할 수 있지만 우회할 수 있습니다. "
"One way is to simply re-designate the damp stone for mining in order to build a 3x3 room around the stairs. ","계단 주변에 3x3 방을 짓기 위해 축축한 돌을 단순히 채굴용으로 재지정하는 것도 한 방법이다. "
"You can then build Walls around the stairs until the leaking water is blocked off. ","그런 다음 새는 물이 차단될 때까지 계단 주위에 벽을 건설할 수 있습니다. "
"Repeat this pattern until you get below the aquifer.","대수층 아래에 도달할 때까지 이 패턴을 반복합니다."
"Eventually the Clothing that your residents start with will rot away. ","최종적으로 주민들이 처음에 착용한 의복은 썩어 없어집니다. "
"While it is possible to trade for Clothing, Cloth, or Leather, you can also farm Pigtails, ","의류, 천, 가죽으로 거래할 수 있지만, 돼지 꼬리를 생산하거나 비단을 수확하거나 가죽 무두질을 통해 가죽을 얻을 수도 있습니다. "
"gather Silk, or tan Skins for Leather. ","의류, 천, 가죽으로 거래할 수 있지만, 돼지 꼬리를 생산하거나 비단을 수확하거나 가죽 무두질을 통해 가죽을 얻을 수도 있습니다. "
"After harvesting plants like the Pigtail, first process them at the Farmer's Workshop, then ","돼지꼬리 같은 식물을 수확한 후 농부의 작업장에서 먼저 가공한 다음, 베틀에서 천을 짜고, 옷감공방에서 옷을 만들어야 합니다. "
"Gathered Silk can go directly to the Loom.","채집한 비단은 베틀로 바로 이동할 수 있습니다."
"Skins can be obtained by butchering Livestock at the Butcher's Shop. ","가죽은 가축을 도축장에서 도축하면 얻을 수 있습니다. "
"Skins are tanned at the Tanner's Shop, and made into Clothing at the Leather Works.","가죽은 무두질공방에서 무두질한 후 가죽공방에서 옷으로 만들어집니다."
"Meeting Areas are Zones where your citizens gather when not working or taking care of their needs. ","만남의 장소는 구역으로, 시민들이 일하지 않거나 개인적인 볼 일을 처리할 때 모이는 장소입니다. "
"Zones can be assigned to special Locations. Usually one Meeting Area is sufficient, but Locations can span several Zones. ","구역은 지정된 위치에 지정할 수 있습니다. 보통 [C:3:0:]만남의 장소는 하나면 충분하지만, 위치는 여러 구역에 걸쳐 있을 수도 있습니다. "
"There are five types of Locations, which we'll go over in turn.","위치에는 다섯 가지 유형이 있으며, 이를 차례로 살펴보겠습니다."
"Taverns","선술집"
"Taverns are where your residents gather to drink, socialize, tell stories, and dance. ","선술집은 주민들이 모여 술을 마시고, 사교하고, 이야기를 나누고, 춤을 추는 곳입니다. "
"To have a fully functioning Tavern you must have a Stockpile with Booze in it, preferably close by. ","온전히 작동하는 선술집을 보유하려면 창고에 술이 있어야 하며, 가급적 가까운 곳에 있어야 합니다. "
"The inhabitants also like to drink from Goblets, Cups, or Mugs.  These must be stored in Chests or ","주민들은 잔, 컵, 또는 머그잔으로 마시는 것을 좋아합니다. "
"Coffers inside the Tavern.  Optionally you can place Tables and Chairs where your residents can eat. ","이 아이템들은 선술집 내부의 상자나 보관함에 보관해야 합니다. 
선택 사항으로 주민들이 식사할 수 있는 테이블과 의자를 배치할 수 있습니다. "
"You may also leave a cleared space your tavern-goers will use as a dance floor.  If you have any Musical ","선술집 손님이 댄스 플로어로 사용할 공간을 비워둘 수도 있습니다. "
"Instruments these can also be used by the Tavern. ","악기가 있다면 선술집에서도 악기를 사용할 수 있습니다. "
"From the Tavern Info Menu you can choose to assign Performers or a Tavern Keeper who will serve the ","선술집 정보 메뉴에서 연주자 또는 방문객에게 음료를 서빙할 선술집 관리자를 지정할 수 있습니다. "
"visitors drinks. There is also an option to allow outsiders to come to your Tavern.","외부인이 여러분의 선술집에 오도록 허용하는 옵션도 있습니다."
"Temples","신전"
"Temples are places for faithful residents to commune with their chosen deity. ","신전은 신실한 주민들이 선택한 신과 교감할 수 있는 장소입니다. "
"Upon creation of the Location you must choose which deity to dedicate the Temple to, if any. ","장소를 생성할 때 신전에 모실 신을 선택해야 합니다(있는 경우). "
"Sometimes the adherents to a certain religion will demand that you build a Temple to their specific deity. ","때때로 특정 종교 신봉자들은 특정 신을 위한  신전을 건설해달라고 요구합니다. "
"You can see how many worshipers of each deity live in your fortress by scrolling over their names. ","각 신들의 이름을 스크롤하면 얼마나 많은 신들의 숭배자들이 당신의 요새에 살고 있는지 알 수 있습니다. "
"In the Temple Info Menu you can see the value of the Temple.  Sometimes the worshipers will demand ","신전 정보 메뉴에서  신전의 가치를 확인할 수 있습니다. "
"that you increase the value of the temple by decorating or adding Furniture like Statues. ","때때로 신자들은 가구를 조각상처럼 장식하거나 추가하여 신전의 가치를 높여달라고 요구할 수 있습니다. "
"You can also add Chests or Coffers to hold Musical Instruments that the faithful will use. "," 상자나 보관함 을 추가해서 악기들을 신성하게 사용할 수 있다. "
"You can also assign Performers to the Temple and even Priests once the Temple becomes more established.","연주자를 신전에 할당할 수도 있으며, 신전이 더 자리를 잡으면 사제까지 할당할 수도 있습니다."
"Hospitals","병원"
"Your unfortunate citizens are taken to the Hospital when injured.  There they will rest and given water until ","불행하게도 시민들은 부상을 입으면  병원으로 이송됩니다. "
"they are seen by a Doctor. ","그곳에서 의사의 진찰을 받을 때까지 휴식을 취하고 물을 공급받습니다. "
"To fully function your Hospital needs to have Beds, ","병원이 온전히 작동하려면 침대, 양동이(물 공급원 포함), 봉합용 실, 붕대용 천이 있어야 합니다. "
"You must build Chests or Coffers inside the Hospital to store these items. ","이 아이템을 보관하려면 상자 또는 보관함을 병원 안에 건설해야 합니다. "
"Some injuries require Splints, or Gypsum Plaster Powder for Orthopedic Casts.  Soap is necessary to prevent infection. ","일부 부상에는 부목 또는 정형 외과용 석고 분말 깁스 가루가 필요합니다. 
감염 예방을 목적으로 비누가 필요합니다. "
"Some patients will need Crutches after they are treated. ","일부 환자는 치료 후 목발이 필요할 수 있습니다. "
"You will need to appoint a "," 귀족 및 관리자 메뉴에서  수석 의료 드워프를 임명해야 합니다. "
"Chief Medical Dwarf","수석 의료 드워프"
" from the Nobles and administrators menu. "," 귀족 및 관리자 메뉴에서. "
"You will need to assign a Doctor to the Hospital from the Hospital Info Menu. ","병원 정보 메뉴에서 병원에 의사를 할당해야 합니다. "
"Later you can assign Doctors to specific roles such as the Diagnostician. ","나중에 의사를 진단의와 같은 특정 역할에 할당할 수 있습니다. "
"The Doctor will need a Table to perform surgeries.  Some injuries will require "," 의사가 수술을 하려면  테이블이 필요합니다. 일부 부상은 견인 벤치가 필요하며, 기계 공방에서 제작할 수 있습니다. "
"Libraries","도서관"
"The thirst for knowledge some residents have can be satisfied at the Library. ","일부 주민의 지식에 대한 갈증은 도서관에서 해소할 수 있습니다. "
"From the Library Info Menu you can assign Scholars who discuss their interests with the inhabitants, ","도서관 정보 메뉴에서 주민들과 관심사를 논의하는 학자와 이를 기록하는 서기를 지정할 수 있습니다. 조심하세요! 어떤 지식은 위험합니다. "
"In order to hold Scrolls and Codices you will need Bookcases.  You will also need ","두루마리와 필사본을 보관하려면 책장이 필요합니다. "
"Tables for your Scribes to work on.  Chests or Coffers are needed to store the ","또한 서기가 작업할 수 있는 테이블이 필요합니다. "
"Writing Material for the Scribes to write on. ","상자 또는 보관함은 서기가 쓸 수 있는 필기 재료를 보관하는 데 필요합니다. "
"Guildhalls","길드홀"
"Guildhalls are where the workers of specific professions gather to socialize and share their knowledge. ","길드홀은 특정 직업의 일꾼들이 모여 친목을 도모하고 지식을 공유하는 곳입니다. "
"When deciding which guild to dedicate the Guildhall to, you can scroll over the names of the guilds ","길드홀을 사용할 길드를 결정할 때, 길드 이름을 스크롤하여 각 직업의 일꾼 수와 길드 설립 여부를 확인할 수 있습니다. "
"and see how many workers of each profession there are and whether a guild has been established. ","그리고 각 직업의 노동자가 몇 명인지, 길드가 설립되었는지 확인합니다. "
"As the guild grows in power they may demand a Guildhall of greater value.  This can be increased by ","길드의 세력이 성장함에 따라 더 큰 가치의 [C:1:0:)길드홀을 요구할 수 있습니다. "
"decorating the hall and building Furniture like Statues.","이는 홀을 장식하고 가구와 같은 조각상을 건설하여 늘릴 수 있습니다."
"Before you can create a military, you must appoint a Militia Commander ","군대를 생성하려면 먼저 귀족 및 관리자 메뉴에서 민병대 사령관을 임명해야 합니다. "
"from the Nobles and administrators menu. ","귀족 및 관리자 메뉴에서. "
"Then from the Squad menu you can assign your first squad, led by the Commander.  First you must ","그런 다음 분대 메뉴에서 지휘관이 이끄는 첫 번째 분대를 지정할 수 있습니다. "
"assign the uniform.  A new uniform can be assigned later. ","우선 전투복을 지급해야 합니다. 
신규 전투복은 나중에도 지급할 수 있습니다. "
"The squad can be customized and you ","분대는 맞춤형 설정이 가능하며, 분대 화면 상단의 버튼에서 지휘관을 선택할 수 있습니다. "
"can select the leader from the buttons at the top of the squad screen. ","부대 화면 상단의 버튼에서 리더를 선택할 수 있습니다. "
"The most important buttons ","가장 중요한 버튼은 명령을 내릴 분대를 선택하는 확인 표시와 분대에 병사를 추가하는 위치 버튼입니다. "
"You can give individual orders to the soldiers by selecting them with the checkmark from the Position menu ","위치 메뉴에서 체크 표시를 한 병사를 선택하거나 분대 메뉴에서 전체 분대를 선택해 병사에게 개별 명령을 내릴 수 있습니다. "
"or the whole squad from the Squad menu. ","또는 분대 메뉴의 전체 분대. "
"The orders can be found at the bottom of the Squad menu when somebody is selected.  You can make a Kill order and confirm it. ","명령은 누군가를 선택하면 분대 메뉴 하단에서 확인할 수 있습니다. 
사살 명령을 내리고 확인하면 됩니다. "
"You can make a Station order to have your squad stand in that position.  You can create a Patrol Route ","C:3:0:1]주둔지를 생성하여 해당 위치에 분대를 대기시킬 수 있습니다. C:3:0:1]순찰 경로를 생성하고 분대를 해당 경로에 배치할 수 있습니다. "
"and assign your squads to it.  The Defend Burrow order gives you a list of Burrows (created by pressing ","굴 방어 명령은 분대가 방어할 굴 목록(굴 메뉴를 눌러 생성)을 제공합니다. "
"the Burrow menu) for your squad to defend.  The Training order allows your soldiers to train, but you must ","훈련 명령으로 병사들을 훈련시킬 수 있지만, 먼저 구역 메뉴에서 생성한 막사를 할당해야 합니다. "
"The Equipment menu allows you to customize the uniforms of the selected squads. ","장비 메뉴에서 선택한 분대의 전투복을 커스터마이징할 수 있습니다. "
"You can assign new uniforms to your squads or add a new one to customize it and add it to the uniform list. ","부대에 새 유니폼을 할당하거나 새 유니폼을 추가하여 유니폼을 사용자 정의하고 유니폼 목록에 추가할 수 있습니다. "
"You can also click on details to customize each individual soldier.","세부 정보를 클릭하여 각 병사를 사용자 정의할 수도 있습니다."
"The Schedule menu is a powerful tool to give automatic orders to the selected squad. ","스케줄 메뉴는 선택한 분대에게 자동 명령을 내릴 수 있는 강력한 도구입니다. "
"Routines are individual orders given to a squad or individual members of a squad.  From here you ","루틴은 부대 또는 부대의 개별 구성원에게 주어지는 개인적인 명령입니다. 여기서부터는 당신이 "
"can assign and edit the routines your soldiers will follow. ","병사들이 따를 루틴을 지정하고 편집할 수 있습니다. "
"You can also give your squads a monthly schedule.  The routines are aligned along the top of ","팀원들에게 월별 일정을 제공할 수도 있습니다. "
"the grid and the months of the year are shown down the left side.  To assign different orders ","루틴은 그리드 상단을 따라 정렬되며 왼쪽 아래에는 연도의 월이 표시됩니다. "
"for each month, line up with your chosen routine, go down the column, and press edit on the ","월별로 다른 순서를 지정하려면 선택한 루틴을 정렬하고 열 아래로 이동한 다음 해당 월에 정렬된 순서에서 편집을 누르세요. "
"orders lining up with the month.  You can also copy an order from any cell.  Clicking on the ","모든 셀에서 명령을 복사할 수도 있습니다. "
"column itself will assign the routine to the selected squad.","열 자체를 클릭하면 선택한 분대에게 루틴이 할당됩니다."
"The regular mining command digs a tunnel into the side of a mountain or deep underground. ","정기적인 채굴 명령은 산의 측면이나 깊은 지하로 터널을 판다. "
"This leaves a ""ceiling"" above and ""floor"" below the empty space you have mined. ","이렇게 하면 채굴한 빈 공간 위에는 ""천장""이, 아래에는 ""바닥""이 남게 됩니다. "
"A ramp is a special square that can be traversed to the level above. There must be space above a ramp ","경사로란 위층으로 이동할 수 있는 특수한 칸을 말합니다. "
"and an adjacent wall with an open floor above for the ramp to be usable.","경사로를 사용하려면 경사로 위에 공간이 있어야 하며, 경사로 위의 지면이 개방된 인접한 벽이 있어야 합니다."
"Digging a ramp into a wall on the same level will create a connection to the higher level and remove the ceiling. ","같은 층의 벽에 경사로를 파면 더 높은 층과 연결되고 천장이 제거됩니다. "
"Once a ramp is present, you can start using the regular mining command on the higher level.","경사로가 있으면 윗 층에서 일반 마이닝 명령을 사용할 수 있습니다."
"Digging a channel will mine out a floor or wall at the current level and dig out a ramp at the level ","수로를 판다면 현재 층의 바닥이나 벽을 파내고 그 아래 층에 경사로를 파내야 합니다. "
"below.  If there's no solid ground below the square being channeled, channeling will destroy the floor ","수로를 파는 칸 아래에 단단한 지반이 없는 경우, 수로를 파면 바닥이 파괴되고 대신 구멍이 생깁니다. "
"and create a hole instead.","대신 구멍을 만듭니다."
"To easily see which ramps go up or down, click the Ramp Vision button by the minimap.","어떤 경사로가 오르거나 내려가는지 쉽게 확인하려면 미니맵 옆의 경사로 보기 버튼을 클릭하세요."
"As your dwarves live and work in your fortress they will generate Refuse. ","드워프가 요새에서 생활하고 일하면 쓰레기를 생성합니다. "
"This includes everything from Bones and other Remains to worn-out Clothing. ","여기에는 뼈와 기타 유골부터 낡은 의복에 이르기까지 모든 것이 포함됩니다. "
"You can gather the Refuse in a Refuse Stockpile. ","쓰레기를 쓰레기 저장소에 모을 수 있습니다. "
"Some Refuse can be put to use, for instance Shells can be turned into Crafts. ","일부 쓰레기는 사용할 수 있습니다. 예를 들어 조개껍질은 공예품으로 바꿀 수 있습니다. "
"Most of it will just generate foul smelling [C:0:0:1]Miasma.","대부분은 악취가 나는 미아즈마를 생성할 뿐입니다."
"If your Refuse Stockpile starts to fill up you can create a Dump Zone. ","쓰레기 저장소가 가득 차기 시작하면 [C:3:0:]폐기 구역을 만들어 보세요. "
"Use the Zones menu to select Garbage Dump and draw a rectangle over a cliff or hole and ","구역 메뉴를 사용하여 쓰레기 투기를 선택하고 절벽이나 구멍 위에 직사각형을 그린 다음 투기할 항목을 지정합니다. "
"then designate Items for Dumping. ","그런 다음 덤핑을 위한 항목을 지정합니다. "
"This can be done either from the Item's Info Sheet or by dragging a rectangle over everything ","이 작업은 아이템의 정보 시트에서 수행하거나 덤프 지정 도구를 사용하여 덤프하려는 모든 대상 위에 직사각형을 드래그하면 됩니다. "
"you want to dump using the Dump Designation tool.","Dump Designation 도구를 사용하여 덤프하려고 합니다."
"There are many treasures and perils deep underground. ","지하 깊은 곳에는 많은 보물과 위험이 있습니다. "
"In order to pursue the wealth of the earth, you must dig deeper! ","세계의 부를 추구하려면 더 깊이 파고들어야 합니다! "
"Valuable gems and precious metals can be found, along with richer soil, ","귀중한 보석과 귀금속을 비롯해 풍부한 토양, 절실히 필요한 물, 곰팡이 목재, 기타 신비로운 신비를 발견할 수 있습니다. "
"desperately needed water, fungal lumber, and other tantalizing mysteries.","물, 곰팡이 목재, 그리고 다른 감질나는 미스터리들이 절실히 필요할 것 입니다."
"To attract migrants and build a successful settlement, ","이민자를 유치하고 성공적인 정착을 구축하기 위해 "
"you will need to keep your citizens happy.","시민을 행복하게 유지해야 합니다."
"There are many ways to maintain your citizens. ","시민을 유지하는 방법에는 여러 가지가 있습니다. "
"Alcohol, good food, and personal rooms go a long way. ","술, 맛있는 음식, 개인 공간은 큰 도움이 됩니다. "
"Meet their needs by providing Meeting Areas and Locations for socializing, worship, and study. ","친목 도모, 예배, 학습을 위한 [C:3:0:]만남의 장소와 위치를 제공하여 그들의 욕구를 충족시키세요. "
"Monitor their thoughts to identify problems that you can solve.","당신이 해결할 수 있는 문제를 식별하기 위해 그들의 생각을 모니터하십시오."
"Unhappy citizens can act out and cause trouble, and fewer people will risk travel to a ","불행한 시민은 돌발 행동을 하여 문제를 일으킬 수 있으며, 비참한 요새로 이동하려는 사람은 줄어들 것입니다. "
"miserable fortress.","비참한 요새."
"The current and optional path to victory is to have your fortress elevated to a barony. ","현재의 선택적인 승리의 길은 요새를 남작으로 격상시키는 것입니다. "
"From there, you can build your wealth, export goods, and attract more migrants until ","거기서, 당신은 부를 쌓고, 상품을 수출하고, 더 많은 이민자들을 유치할 수 있습니다. "
"you become a county then a duchy.  A happy fortress with many exports and massive wealth ","당신은 상류층이 되고 나서 공국이 됩니다. 많은 수출과 막대한 부를 가진 행복한 요새 "
"can attract the existing monarch of the civilization.","문명의 기존 군주를 끌어들일 수 있습니다."
"This is the first step to completing the game.  Next, you'll need to satisfy your ruler's needs, ","이것은 게임을 완성하기 위한 첫 번째 단계입니다. 다음은 통치자의 요구를 충족시켜야 합니다. "
"and finally become a Mountainhome by seating them on a legendary throne with seven mythical symbols of office. ","그리고 마침내 그들을 일곱 개의 신화적인 사무실 상징이 있는 전설적인 왕좌에 앉힘으로써 마운틴 홈이 됩니다. "
"You'll be an accomplished player at this point.","이 시점에서 당신은 뛰어난 선수가 될 것입니다."
"But this is only the beginning.  Ultimately, your true goals are up to your imagination. ","하지만 이것은 시작에 불과합니다. 궁극적으로, 여러분의 진정한 목표는 여러분의 상상력에 달려 있습니다. "
"Call visitors from all over the world with the greatest tavern, library, or temple the world has ever known. ","세계에서 가장 훌륭한 선술집, 도서관 또는 신전으로 전 세계의 방문객들을 불러모으시오. "
"Build an elaborate water-powered contraption or domesticate previously untameable wild beasts. ","정교한 수력 장치를 만들거나 이전에는 길들여지지 않았던 야생 동물을 길들이십시오. "
"Settle in unliveable regions tormented by ancient evils and defend your fortress from zombies with your own army of vampires. ","고대의 악에 시달리는 살기 힘든 지역에 정착하고 뱀파이어 군대로 좀비로부터 요새를 방어하십시오. "
"Your exploits will be recorded for Legends mode and by the master engravers in subsequent fortresses in your world.","당신의 업적은 당신의 세계에 있는 후속 요새에 있는 전설 모드와 마스터 조각가들에 의해 기록될 것입니다."


bitter {s,}=$1 $2 쓴맛을 느꼈습니다.     
empathy {s,}=$1 $2 공감을 했습니다. 
euphoria {s,}=$1 $2 희열을 느꼈습니다.
fondness {s,}=$1 $2 애정을 느꼈습니다.
gratitude {s,}=$1 $2 고마움을 느꼈습니다.
guilt {s,}=$1 $2 죄책감을 느꼈습니다.
happy {s,}=$1 $2 행복감을 느꼈습니다.
hopeless {s,}=$1 $2 가망없음을 느꼈습니다.
indignant {s,}=$1 $2 분노를 느꼈습니다.
isolated {s,}=$1 $2 고립감을 느꼈습니다.
lonely {s,}=$1 $2 외로움을 느꼈습니다.    
pleasure {s,}=$1 $2 기쁨을 느꼈습니다.
sad {s,}=$1 $2 슬픔을 느꼈습니다.  
satisfied {s,}=$1 $2 만족감을 느꼈습니다.
self-pity {s,}=$1 $2 자기연민을 느꼈습니다.
sympathy {s,}=$1 $2 동정을 느꼈습니다.
vengeful {s,}=$1 $2 복수심을 느꼈습니다.
love {s,}=$1 $2 사랑을 느꼈습니다.